[codex] Make Protocol tab App Layer ready (#144)
layer-3/docs: docs/nitrolite/protocol/app-layer/cryptography-and-signing.mdx

---
sidebar_position: 3
title: "Cryptography and Signing"
description: "Canonical encoding, digest construction, signature envelopes, validation modes, session keys, and replay protection."
---

# Cryptography and Signing

Protocol cryptography defines how signable objects are encoded, hashed, and signed. The rules are algorithms and canonical procedures independent of any specific programming language.

## Purpose

Cryptography in the Nitrolite protocol serves three functions:

1. **Authentication**: prove that a participant authorized a state update.
2. **Integrity**: ensure signed data has not been modified.
3. **Replay protection**: prevent previously signed states from being reused in unintended contexts.

## Cryptographic Algorithms

| Primitive | Protocol rule |
| --- | --- |
| Signature algorithm | ECDSA over the secp256k1 curve, producing a 65-byte signature `(r, s, v)`. |
| Hash function | Keccak-256, producing a 32-byte digest. |

## Canonical Encoding

> Protocol objects that require signing MUST be encoded into a canonical binary representation before hashing. The canonical encoding uses RLP encoding (`abi.encode` in Solidity) as defined by Ethereum RLP references, ensuring deterministic byte sequences regardless of implementation language.

Reviewer: RLP ≠ `abi.encode`. RLP is Ethereum's recursive-length-prefix encoding (used for transactions and blocks). `abi.encode` is Solidity's 32-byte-word ABI encoding. They produce different bytes. The implementation almost certainly uses `abi.encode`; the phrase "RLP encoding (`abi.encode` in Solidity)" conflates two unrelated schemes. Note: source `nitrolite/docs/protocol/cryptography.md:33` has the same error and should be fixed upstream too.

```suggestion
Protocol objects that require signing MUST be encoded into a canonical binary representation before hashing. The canonical encoding uses Solidity ABI encoding (`abi.encode`), which produces deterministic 32-byte-word-aligned byte sequences regardless of implementation language.
```

Author: fixed. changed this to solidity abi encoding, and also updated the source protocol doc locally.
